---
layout: post
title: Time
---
Time is the most precious resource you will ever have.

And while I don't wish to be too blunt- you have less of it now, than you did yesterday.And that will be true every day of your life.

So then, with a closing window of time, how can we make the most of it?

## 1. Prioritize!

There is an anecdote you may have come across before, with a professor speaking to his students.

In his hand he has a glass jar, and behind him on his desk he has large container of sand and smaller container of rocks.

To his class he says "This jar represents your day. This sand is all the non essential things we can fill our time with. As you can see, there is way more sand than can fit in this jar."

The professor fills the jar with sand to illustrate.

The professor continues, "These rocks, on the other hand are the really important things in life: your job, your family, your hobbies. If you fill your day with the non-essential as I have here, there is no room for whats important"

The professor attempts to place rocks on top but they easily fall off.

The the professor dumps the sand out. He fills most of the jar with a few large rocks, and then pours sand in that fills the spaces in between. and then he says, "Always place the essentials first!"

## 2. Attack Procrastination!

No one is immune to procrastination- but some people face it head on.

In studies on the nature of procrastinating, there are often a few factors that inhibit immediate action.

-lack of knowledge or ability
-dislike of the action
-lack of immediate consequence(reward or punishment)

The key to attacking the problem then is to address what is causing it. If you can isolate what is driving you to delay, then you will know how to get started.

For instance, if you are unsure how to start, then make your first step finding out. Likewise, if you set more immediate rewards or punishments for yourself on projects that are longer running, you are much more likely not to put that project off!

## 3. Give Yourself a Break!

And I don't mean an excuse. When you are able to focus and accomplish goals, you also need to factor in that small breaks increase your overall productivity. Added benefits can come from small walks. Not only does this break up the monotony of work, allowing you to refocus and stay driven- but small walks increase blood flow to the brain and have been proven to boost creative thought.
